Rewrite of Quick Start (#104)
ShiftLeftSecurity/documentation: using-ocular/getting-started/ocular-quick-start.md

# Quick Start for ShiftLeft Ocular

You use ShiftLeft Ocular to examine the software elements and flows in your application to identify complex business logic vulnerabilities that can't be scanned for automatically. 

The process for quickly starting with ShiftLeft Ocular is:

1. [Install ShiftLeft Ocular](#installing-shiftleft-ocular).
   
2. [Start ShiftLeft Ocular](#starting-shiftleft-ocular).

3. [Create the Code Property Graph (CPG)](#creating-the-code-property-graph).

4. [Explore Your Workspace](#exploring-your-workspace).

5. [Uncover the Attack Surface](#uncovering-the-attack-surface).

### The HelloShiftLeft Demo Application

> The demo Java application [HelloShiftLeft](https://github.com/ShiftLeftSecurity/HelloShiftLeft) is used in this Quick Start. It is included in the ShiftLeft Ocular distribution. When you install ShiftLeft Ocular, HelloShiftLeft is automatically placed in the `subjects` subdirectory. The file is `hello-shiftleft-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`.

Author: Done

In this code fragment, a cookie is received via HTTP and eventually deserialized to create a Java object, an optimistic practice that is often exploited by attackers for arbitrary code execution.

## Installing ShiftLeft Ocular

Refer to the article [Installing ShiftLeft Ocular](installation.md) for details.

## Starting ShiftLeft Ocular

> Information for the supported operating systems can be found in the article [Starting ShiftLeft Ocular](starting.md)

Author: Fixed

## Creating the Code Property Graph

To create the CPG for HelloShiftLeft, use the command

```
createCpg("subjects/hello-shiftleft-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar")
```

where `subjects/hello-shiftleft-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` is the location and filename of the target application.

> The file cpg.bin.zip in a binary format, containing the CPG for the target application, is created and automatically loaded into your workspace. 

Author: Done

## Exploring Your Workspace

> The first time you create a CPG, ShiftLeft Ocular automatically creates your workspace. A workspace is a directory containing all data persisted by ShiftLeft Ocular. Workspaces help you manage CPGs and their layers, simultaneously work with multiple CPGs, and combine queries from multiple CPGs.

Author: Done

When you create a CPG, it is automatically loaded into the workspace. Existing CPGs can also be loaded into a workspace, and removed or deleted from a workspace. By default, all operations are executed on the CPG that was last loaded into the workspace; this is the active CPG.

Issuing the command `workspace` shows a workspace entry for the newly created CPG.

```
workspace
 | name                              | overlays                 | loaded|
 |======================================================================|
 | hello-shiftleft-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar| semanticcpg(l),tagging(l)| true  |
 ```

## Uncovering the Attack Surface

The CPG contains information about the processed code on different levels of abstraction: dependencies, type
hierarchies, control flow, data flow, and instruction-level information. The CPG can be queried using 
ShiftLeft Ocular in either [interactive or non-interactive modes](interactive-noninteractive-modes.md). 

> Using interactive querying, explore the program dependencies by

Author: Done here. Will create a PR to add to all other articles

When you create a CPG, it is automatically loaded into your workspace. Existing CPGs can also be loaded into your workspace, and removed or deleted from your workspace. By default, all operations are executed on the CPG that was last loaded into the workspace; this is the active CPG.

Issuing the command `workspace` shows a workspace entry for the newly created CPG.

```
workspace
 | name                              | overlays                 | loaded|
 |======================================================================|
 | hello-shiftleft-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar| semanticcpg(l),tagging(l)| true  |
 ```

## Uncovering the Attack Surface

The CPG contains information about the processed code on different levels of abstraction: dependencies, type
hierarchies, control flow, data flow, and instruction-level information. The CPG can be queried using 
ShiftLeft Ocular in either [interactive or non-interactive modes](interactive-noninteractive-modes.md). 

Using interactive querying, explore the program dependencies by

```scala
ocular> cpg.dependency.name.l
```

> A complete list of all dependency names is returned. ShiftLeft Ocular supports functional combinators. For example, to output (name, version) pairs, use the following expression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete list of all dependency names is returned. As OQL is a Scala-based DSL, it also supports functional combinators. For example, to output `(name, version)` pairs, use the following expression
```

Author: Done
